\page frame_reference

# Overview

This tutorial explains how to decide the frame of reference for your model and
the conventions used in Gazebo.

## Related tutorials

https://gazebosim.org/api/sim/8/spherical_coordinates.html

# Gazebo world frame

This page captures some of the reference frames and conventions that we use in
Gazebo. In general, Gazebo follows [REP 103: Standard Units of Measure and
Coordinate Conventions](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-0103.html).

Gazebo's simulation is always performed in Cartesian coordinates (good old XYZ).

![world_frame](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1440739/156785118-225d5973-9837-49d1-8a5b-be402e3c074c.png)

Additionally, Gazebo supports the use of real world latitude and longitude
coordinates in its simulations using the WGS84 geodetic system. The world's
Cartesian coordinates correspond to a local tangent plane at a given point on
the planetary surface. By default, this plane follows the ENU (East-North-Up)
convention, as shown on the image below:

![spherical_coordinates](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1440739/156786820-f81d3871-2299-4c3d-a4c2-c1047a4e3b18.png)

# Model frame

Gazebo follows the right-hand rule. The robot front facing surface is in the
positive x direction, left facing being in the positive y direction, top facing
being in the positive z direction and so forth.

![model_frame_sm](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1440739/156787618-3795012f-3a77-4048-8a16-94d6ba163f2b.jpg)

# Reference frame design considerations

If you are creating a model, besides designing its kinematic structure (links
and joints) and physical properties, you need to decide where to place your
model's reference frame. Next are a few examples of our turtle model with three
differente choices for its reference frame.

@image html files/frame_reference/turtle_frames.png

Which one should I use then? There's no right answer here but here are a few
recommendations:

1. If your simulation model is based on a real-world model, try to use the same
reference frame in simulation. This will simplify the process of creating and
maintaining your model in simulation, as most of the measurements that you might
find from your real-world robot will be transferable to your simulation model.

2. Follow Gazebo's convention making `X` pointing forward, `Y` pointing
left, and `Z` pointing up.

3. Try to match the `Z` value of your reference frame with the point of your
model that contacts the ground or the water. That way, when you spawn your model
at any point in the world, if you use `z` value of `0`, you know it will
smoothly sit on a stable place.

# How to set your model reference frame

There are a few ways to change the reference frame of your model:

1. Adjust your mesh reference frame. When desigining your mesh you'll be able to
set its reference frame. It's recommended to match the mesh reference frame with
the one you will want in Gazebo for your model.

2. Add extra transformations via SDF. Your model SDF supports the ability to add
transformations with the `<pose>` tag to add extra offset to the visuals or
collision elements of your model.

As a rule of thumb, try to minimize the number of transformations in your model
to make it easier to reason about its reference frame.
